# Student questionnaire and science performance data from the 2015 PISA

This is a subset of the Programme of International Student Assessment
(PISA) including student questionnaire data and their performance on the
science assessment. Data from the United States and Canada are included.

## Usage

``` r
data(pisa2015)
```

## Format

A data frame with 20,571 rows and 8 variables

## Source

https://www.oecd.org/en/data/datasets/pisa-2015-database.html

## Details

There are seven variables:

- `country.` The country the student is from (USA or Canada).

- `science_score.` Average science score over the 10 plausible values.

- `principals.` Average scale score for students self-reported
  understanding of scientific principals.

- `belonging.` Average scale score for belonging.

- `interest.` Average scale score for interest in science.

- `enjoyment.` Average scale score for enjoyment doing science.

- `motivation.` Average scale score for motivation in science.

- `efficacy.` Average scale score for students self-efficacy in science.

All numeric scores have been converted to standard scores (z-scores).

Below are the Likert response questions students completed that are used
to calculate the belonging, interest, motivation, efficacy, and
principals variables. The values in parentheses correspond to the
variable names in the original PISA database. The questionnaire can be
downloaded from [the OECD PISA
website](https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/data/datasets/pisa/pisa-2015-datasets/questionnaires/Student%20questionnaire%20PBA%20main%20PISA%202015.pdf).

**Belonging:** Thinking about your school: to what extent do you agree
with the following statements? (`ST034`)

- I feel like an outsider (or left out of things) at school.

- I make friends easily at school.

- I feel like I belong at school.

- I feel awkward and out of place in my school.

- Other students seem to like me.

- I feel lonely at school.

**Interest:** How much do you disagree or agree with the statements
about yourself below? (`ST094`)

- I generally have fun when I am learning *broad science* topics.

- I like reading about *broad science*.

- I am happy working on *broad science* topics.

- I enjoy acquiring new knowledge in *broad science*.

- I am interested in learning about *broad science*.

**Enjoyment:** How much do you disagree or agree with the statements
about yourself below? (`ST094`)

- I generally have fun when I am learning *broad science* topics.

- I like reading about *broad science*.

- I am happy working on *broad science* topics.

- I enjoy acquiring new knowledge in *broad science*.

- I am interested in learning about *broad science*.

**Motivation:** How much do you agree with the statements below?
(`ST113`)

- Making an effort in my *school science* subject(s) is worth it because
  this will help me in the work I want to do later on.

- What I learn in my *school science* subject(s) is important for me
  because I need this for what I want to do later on.

- Studying my *school science* subject(s) is worthwhile for me because
  what I learn will improve my career prospects.

- Many things I learn in my *school science* subject(s) will help me to
  get a job.

**Efficacy:** How easy do you think it would be for you to perform the
following tasks on your own? (`ST129`)

- Recognise the science question that underlies a newspaper report on a
  health issue.

- Explain why earthquakes occur more frequently in some areas than in
  others.

- Describe the role of antibiotics in the treatment of disease.

- Identify the science question associated with the disposal of garbage.

- Predict how changes to an environment will affect the survival of
  certain species.

- Interpret the scientific information provided on the labelling of food
  items.

- Discuss how new evidence can lead you to change your understanding
  about the possibility of life on Mars.

- Identify the better of two explanations for the formation of acid
  rain.

**Principals:** How much do you disagree or agree with the statements
below? (`ST131`)

- A good way to know if something is true is to do an experiment.

- Ideas in *broad science* sometimes change.

- Good answers are based on evidence from many different experiments.

- It is good to try experiments more than once to make sure of your
  findings.

- Sometimes *broad science* scientists change their minds about what is
  true in science.

- The ideas in *broad science* science books sometimes change.
